# libgdx sbt project

A [g8](http://github.com/n8han/giter8) template to get up and running with Scala and [libgdx](http://code.google.com/p/libgdx/) in a matter of seconds.

## Setting up a new project

To use this template, you will need to install g8 first.
Read g8's [readme](http://github.com/n8han/giter8#readme) for more information.

Then, in your favorite shell, type the command:

    $ g8 ajhager/libgdx-sbt-project

This will prompt you for a few parameters. Type in the options you would like to change, or just press enter to accept the defaults. g8 does not do any kind of sanity checks on your input, but the defaults should make it clear what form each option should take. For example, desktop_backend should either be lwjgl or jogl, and use_gl2 should be true or false. If something seems broken, make sure you have filled out the prompts correctly.

    package [my.game.pkg]: com.ajhager.hageroids
    name [Game]: Hageroids
    android_api_level [11]:
    desktop_backend [lwjgl]:
    libgdx_version [nightly]: 0.9
    scala_version [2.8.1]:
    sbt_version [0.7.5]:
    use_gl2 [false]:

Finally, you just need to update your project with the needed libraries:

    $ cd hageroids
    $ sbt update

This will download scala, sbt, and libgdx.

## Where to go from here

Your main project now has three subprojects inside it. The *project* folder houses the parent project's configuration for all of its children.

### Common
This is where you will put all of your custom game code and data, under src/main/scala and /src/main/resources, respectively.

### Desktop
The only thing you should need to modify in the Desktop project is the starting resolution of the app in either src/main/lwjgl/Main.scala or src/main/jogl/Main.scala depending on which backend you chose. While still in the top directory of your project, you can manipulate the desktop project using sbt by selecting it as the current project. To run your game, type the command:

    $ sbt "project Desktop" run

Or, if you already have sbt running:

    > project Desktop
    Set current project to Desktop
    > run


### Android
The Android project contains the AndroidManifest and various resources needed for your application. You shouldn't need to modify anything in this project, but have a look around if you need finer control over settings such as which icon to use.

To get started, you wil once again need to make sure you are using the Android project. You will also need to make sure adb is running and recognizes your emulator device:

    $ adb devices

If it is listed you can package and run your game:

    $ sbt "project Android" package start-emulator

At the moment, the Android project is only setup to work with testing on the emulator. Very soon you will be able to sign and deploy your game for an actual device.

## Deployment

Soon there will be one a one step solution for packaging and deployment for each platform, including as a webstart applet.

## Credits
This android g8 template is based on the project generated by [n8han](http://github.com/n8han)'s [android-app](https://github.com/n8han/android-app.g8) and uses [jberkel](http://github.com/jberkel)'s [android-plugin](https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin).

## Todo
 * Add signing, packaging and deployment

